[Music]
ten menopause symptoms it's better to
know about when you're young scientists
from the University of Queensland have
figured out that 48 years old is the
average age when women begin to
experience the symptoms of menopause
menopause starts when a woman doesn't
have her period for one year during this
time women may have unpleasant symptoms
connected to the hormonal changes in
their body surprisingly if you know how
you can live through this period with
comparative ease watch this video
attentively and you'll get to know how
to deal with any unpleasant symptoms
you'll also learn which diet you should
stick to during menopause before you
dive into this pool of knowledge
subscribe to our Channel there's a lot
of useful information on the bright side
of life and you'll be the first to learn
about our daily updates if you ring the
notification bell right away number 10
mood swings
in 2008 dr. II W Freeman and her
colleagues from the University of
Pennsylvania concluded a nine-year study
of women during menopause they gathered
information by conducting interviews
with the participants the scientists
also asked the women to fill in
questionnaires in which they were asked
about their symptoms and changes in
health after examining all the collected
information the researchers found out
one interesting thing that all the
participants had in common it turned out
that during menopause most of the women
had sudden mood swings even though there
was no real reason for getting angry
upset or on the contrary to cheerful
over time the mood swings became less
frequent along with the physiological
changes while such mood swings are
connected with hormonal changes it's
still possible to alleviate this
condition fifty minutes of aerobic
exercise four times a week will make
mood swings less prominent avoiding
stress and stressful situations will
also help get no fewer than eight hours
of sleep and you'll be able to cope with
irritability more effectively finally
making healthy food choices will not
only make mood swings better but will
also contribute to your overall
condition
number nine hot flashes in 2005
scientists from emory university
published the results of a research
project that had been studying hot
flashes and sweating during menopause
according to this study women often feel
feverish and sweaty during menopause
they get red in the face and neck and
then they feel cold healthy women aged
between 45 and 55 took part in a study
the results showed that these symptoms
are detected in twenty five point seven
percent of women but in the late stages
of menopause these symptoms are
experienced by fifty two point six
percent of women to make the symptoms
less noticeable you should avoid
caffeine spices and alcohol especially
red wine and if you're a smoker you will
do yourself a favor by excluding this
habit from your daily routine the reason
behind this is that women who smoke are
60 to 80 percent more likely to suffer
from severe hot flashes number eight
difficulty sleeping sleeping problems
are one of the most popular complaints
from menopausal women a new study that
was conducted at the University of
Illinois at urbana-champaign involved
776 women whose ages varied from 45 to
55 scientists have been following these
women for seven years the participants
were asked to fill in questionnaires and
provide information about restless sleep
cases of insomnia and other sleep
disturbances the scientists found out
that sleeping problems occur at
different stages of menopause but they
correlate with depression and hot
flashes at every stage
that's why professor Rebecca Smith is
sure that sleep will return to normal if
other problems are dealt with
number seven depression
dr. Anita Clayton from the University of
Virginia believes that there's a
connection between menopause and the
risk of developing depression menopause
is a normal part of life and most women
experience it in a similar way
however some women become more
vulnerable in terms of physical and
psychological health these women are at
a higher risk of becoming depressed
first of all it's important to recognize
the signs of depression
these may be feeling sad empty and
hopeless frustration and irritability
anxiety or restlessness can also
indicate this dangerous state other
symptoms of depression include feelings
of worthlessness and guilt memory lapses
exhaustion a lack of energy appetite
changes problems with concentration and
even unexplained physical pain if a
woman goes to the doctor to get tested
for depression early enough she'll get
all the necessary help to reduce and
possibly even eliminate the symptoms
number 6 memory problems studies at the
University of Illinois at
urbana-champaign and Northwestern
University in Chicago showed that women
experiencing menopause can have memory
problems
sixty-eight women aged 44 to 62 who had
at least 35 hot flashes a week completed
questionnaires about their menopause
symptoms mood and memory it turned out
that those who had more frequent hot
flashes did worse on the tests what's
more they also had more severe memory
problems than the women who had fewer
hot flashes in addition women who
reported experiencing more negative
emotions did worse on the tests than
women who managed to stay more positive
[Music]
number five vascular problems scientists
from the university of colorado found a
connection between menopause symptoms
and vascular problems the menopausal
transition is a vulnerable time for
women in terms of vascular health said
the study's lead author Kari Hildreth MD
as a result it negatively affects the
quality of a woman's life to reduce any
potential problems women should take
good care of their cardiovascular system
during the period of menopause number
four water retention another pretty
common menopausal symptoms that most
women suffer from is swelling in the
legs and arms and puffy eyes in the
morning this happens due to water
retention if you have this condition you
can alleviate it in several ways stay
constantly hydrated surprisingly this
will make the puffiness around your eyes
go away and remove those nasty dark
circles be very careful about how much
salt you consume eating too much salt
often provokes water retention try to
get some physical exercise every day
this will make your lymphatic system
move don't drink too much water in the
evening eat the right food nuts leafy
green vegetables broccoli oily fish and
eggs number three headaches according to
a new study from researchers at the
University of Cincinnati migraine
headaches heat up as women approach
menopause generally women have more
headaches than men and their frequency
during menopause can increase by 76% but
that's not a reason to panic physicians
can prescribe hormonal therapies that
level out the changes that occurred
during the perimenopause and menopause
time periods says Yelena pavlovic MD PhD
the co-author of the study number two
stress a study from the department of
psychiatry at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill suggests that
emotional sensitivity to psychosocial
stress may increase due to estradiol
which is a form of estrogen fluctuations
such fluctuations are pretty common
during the menopausal transition more
specifically the results suggested that
estradiol fluctuations may increase a
woman's sensitivity to social rejection
and when this sensitivity is combined
with psychosocial stress factors women
have high chances of developing
depression at the same time physical
activity yoga and meditation can help
fight these symptoms number one low
libido many women experience a notable
decline in sexual function approximately
20 months before and one year after
their last menstrual period this
decrease continues but at a somewhat
slower pace over the following five
years according to a study led by Nancy
Avis PhD at Wake Forest Medical Center
more than 75 percent of the middle-aged
women who participated in the study
reported that sex was moderately -
extremely important to them when the
study began race and ethnicity played a
major role in the decline of sexual
function African American women
experienced a significantly smaller
decline and women of Japanese descent
experienced a much greater decline when
compared with white American women bonus
food during menopause if you have a good
diet during menopause it can ease your
transition these are the main principles
you should consider when planning your
new eating habits eat enough dairy
products to get the necessary calcium
get fiber from bread rice fresh fruit
and cereals drink a lot of water limit
your alcohol consumption cut down on
sugar and salt
you should also inform your doctor about
all the changes that happen to your body
during menopause this way if you
suddenly need help a specialist will
provided at once how thoroughly do you
take care of your health do you visit a
doctor regularly tell us in the comments
below remember to press the like button
if this video was useful to you stay
healthy and happy on the bright side of
life
[Music]